#APIS

A key component of our installation is incorporating direct user interaction on site side-by-side with remote input. As described in the "Interaction" section of our project summary, we want to highlight the tension between individual action and collective participation in global phenomena such as climate change. To facilitate these larger, remote interactions, we’re gathering activity levels from a range of sources:
* Google+
* Twitter
* YouTube 
* More TBD after prototyping!

By "activity level" we mean some representation of relative, real-time activity. For example, for Google+ we are tracking the number of posts that occur around a set of trending terms. A number of new posts over a short amount of time == a lot of activity. We will of course have to calibrate each 'activity level' to a control; we hope to arrive at numbers that mean a lot/a little activity for each platform through prototyping.

##Temboo

To access a range of APIs, and easily be able to add more to our system, we are using a service called [Temboo](https://temboo.com). Temboo is essentially an API for APIs: it provides simple wrappers for complex stuff like OAuth, and provides a range of services like storing your application keys. It's great! (Plus, through Spacebrew [see below], I got to work with these guys a bit and they're amazing!)

##Spacebrew

Each API will be run as a separate script in NodeJS. They will execute calls to Temboo at regular intervals and send their results to our application via a toolkit called [Spacebrew](http://docs.spacbrew.cc). Spacebrew is an open-source toolkit for building and prototyping interaction. It uses websockets to connect applications (on the web, in node, in Processing/openFrameworks/Cinder, etc!) and create relationships between these apps and their data. It's awesome.

Full disclosure: I'm a member of the Spacebrew core team!

Spacebrew will let us keep these apps separate in case, heaven forbid, one of them should crash. It  allows us to silo each app and isolate them from our main app. It also allows us to move the apps to a separate computer or into the cloud without our frontend app ever knowing the difference.

##Setting Up

###Google+ API

We are going to get a rough activity level from Google+ based off the G+ search API. For our final implementation, we would like to search against trending data to create a more reactive stream of where people are posting the most at any given moment. For simplicity's sake, we are going to search for "water" in our initial prototype.

####Setting up
* Set up node dependencies:

	```
	$cd path/to/spacebrew-googleplus
	$npm install forever-monitor
	$npm install request
	$npm install ws
	```
* Manually install the Tembo Lib
	* Navigate to [Temboo website](http://www.temboo.com)
	* Sign-up for account
	* [Download the node sdk](https://temboo.com/sdk/nodejs)
	* Copy it into the "node_modules" directory of this project.  
* Log into Temboo!
* Navigate to the [Google Plus Search API](https://temboo.com/library/Library/Google/Plus/Activities/Search/) page
* Follow Temboo's excellent OAuth guide (the big blue button at the top!)
* Once you make it through the tutorial, under "Credentials" on the right click "Save Current Input". Enter a simple name you can remember; you'll use it later in your code. (I used 'googlesearch')
* In our repo, drill down to project_code/APIs/spacebrew-googleplus
	* Duplicate "auth/template_temboo.js" and rename it "auth_template.js" (in the same folder)
	* Populate this new file with your Temboo info
* IF you named your credential something other than "googlesearch", change line 19 in app.js to whatever you named your credential to
* run the app in the command line:

	```
	$cd path/to/spacebrew-googleplus
	$node app.js
	```

	* this will run the app and connect to the spacebrew sandbox server
		* to connect to your own server, e.g. localhost, pass in your host as the first arg like this (this example uses localhost):
		
		```
		$cd path/to/spacebrew-googleplus
		$node app.js localhost
		```
* The app will automatically search every two seconds by default. It will also run a search if you send it a term via spacebrew!	
	* The app publishes the raw results JSON (see the Temboo page for an example) as a string on "results"
	* We're also posting the number of NEW results since last search. 
		* Remember: On the first search, they're all new!

##Next steps
* We'll be making apps in this same folder. 
	* spacebrew-webservices: general Spacebrew + Temboo service for accessing a range of APIs
		* We'll just be using twitter from here, but it's a great place to start
	* spacebrew-youtube-search
		* Coming soon!
* Routing into frontend prototype
	* Spacebrew is already compiled into our OF app; we just need to start listening to the routes and map their input to a water output!